Open XC is an open source hardware-software platform.
We wanted to see what correlations we could actually create within this model dashboards.
It plugs into your car, and it gives you all the data that you can possibly want.
What we're interested in is looking at how you
can make the car much more modular and customizable,
getting a lot of this data and afford cars
out and letting developers do whatever they want with it.
You could kind of like update technology as technology progresses.
So what we're really trying to do is like catch up with
the consumer electronics design cycle not the automotive design cycle types.
The clock hasn't started yet.
One of the tests that we did was a gas car versus an electric car.
So we're trying to see which is faster,
which is expecting the most energy,
which is the most cost efficient.
And we wanted to
measure doesn't electric car driver drive different than a gas car driver.
So actually by using the Open XC data,
and by splunking that creating links in
dashboards will give it to match ups and correlations.
It all comes down to how much are they mashing the gas.
We've been internally calling that dashboard the "Lead Foot Dashboard".
Who's the most efficient driver?
There's one of our drivers actually going low and
slow and actually using into the brakes not really gnashing on the gas,
and driving more like a normal person would.
When you drive an electric car, it's a lot quicker off the line than a gas powered car.
So, we find people kind of smashing
on the gas pedal but sort of easing up on the electric pedal.
So I've got some data for you here.
We see. What's this I'm doing?
It says you're doing.
There we go.
Battery car is high. There you go.
Hurry up.
There we go. We don't even need because Open XC, We just cut it.
These are basically all of
the sensor readings that are being broadcast from that Firefly box.
It's plugged into the diagnostics port of the car.
It's about how much power can we kind of give
away in order to incentivize a community of makers.
We want to be able to actually harness that and create
an environment where they can much more quickly,
experiment with our ideas,
enrich the platform in general,
make our vehicles in that sense more valuable.